Set 2
1.	Should a main() method be compulsorily declared in all java programs?
	(yes [up to jdk1.6 a java program would execute without a main method from java 1.7 main method  is made a compulsion]  )

2.	What is the return type of the main() method?
	(void)

3.	Why is the main() method declared static?
	(so that the main method becomes access able to OS even without object creation)

4.	What is the argument of main() method?
	(String args[] which is a variable sized array(dynamic array))

5.	Does the order of public and static declaration matter in main() method?
	(no)

6.	Can a source file contain more than one class declaration?
	(yes)

7.	What is meant by orientation?
	(perspective, point of view)

8.	What is meant by object orientation?
	(looking at the worlds around us as a collection of objects )

9.	Explain a few key points associated with an object oriented programming wrt the real world?
	(5 points)

10.	Is java an object oriented programming language?
	(yes)

11.	Is java a pure object oriented programming language?
	(no)

12.	Is C++ an object oriented programming language?
	(yes)

13.	Is C an object oriented programming language?
	(no)

14.	Which was the first object oriented programming language?
	(simula)

15.	Which is the first truly object oriented programming language? 
	(smalltalk)

16.	What was the style of programming which was popularly used in the industry before object oriented style came into existence?
	(structured)

17.	What is a class?
	(Class is a blueprint, jvm looks at the class creates objects.Though a class does not exist in reality object exists in reality(Blueprint contractor example))

18.	What is an object?
	(Is a real world entity which has a physical existence.An object is created by the jvm by referring to the class)

19.	Do classes have physical existence?
	(NO)

20.	Do objects have physical existence?
	(YES)

21.	What is meant by physical existence?
	(if memory is allocated for an entity)

22.	If both C++ and Java are OOPL, then why is Java so popularly used?
	(Portability)

23.	How are objects created in Java?
	(new keyword)

24.	Who creates objects in Java?
	(JVM)

25.	Which operator is used for object creation in Java?
	(new)

26.	 Can an object be created without a class?
	(no)

27.	How many objects of a class can be created?
	(any number)

28.	Comment on the properties of an object?
	(also called has part of the object and is taken care by data types)

29.	Comment on the behaviors of an object?
	(refers to Does part of an object,managed in pgmin using methods.)

30.	Can you identify objects in this interview room?

31.	Can you identify the interaction between objects in this interview room?

32.	Why is object orientation a good style of programming?
	(solution to real world problem needs oops approach,it is close to real world in which live)

33.	 When did the idea of object orientation emerge in the programming world?
	(in 1980’2 the it industry widely came to the conclusion that structured programming is not good style of pgmin hence object oreientation was adopted 
	as an alternative to structured programming.)

34.	What is the default value of an object reference declared as an instance variable?

35.	Why should we enclose main() method within a class? 
	(because in java every method must be enclosed within a class)

36.	What happens if we do not declare main() as public? 

37.	What happens if we do not declare main() as static?

38.	Which command in java is used to invoke the java compiler?

39.	Which command in java is used to invoke the JVM?

40.	Why should main() method be present in all java applications?

41.	What are command line arguments?

42.	What is the use of command line arguments?

43.	How does java collect command line arguments?

44.	Haw many command line arguments can be passed to a java program?

45.	What happens if a java program expects command line arguments but is not sent to it?

46.	Why should an object always have a handle?

47.	What is a handle also called as?

48.	Can we have multiple main() methods within a single class?

49.	Can we have multiple main() methods in a java program?

50.	What are the advantages of object orientation? 
	(ans- easy software design, easy software maintenance, reusable software)
51.	What is meant by instantiation? 

52.	Should a class name be a noun or a verb or adjective?
	(noun)

53.	Should a variable name be a noun or verb or adjective?
	(noun)

54.	Should a method name be a noun or verb or adjective?
	(verb)

55.	Should interface name be a noun or verb or adjective?
	(adjective)

56.	What is the Camel convention for naming a class?

57.	What is the Camel convention for naming a variable?

58.	What is the Camel convention for naming a method?

59.	What are the different ways of creating object in java? 
	(By new keyword
	By newInstance() method
	By clone() method
	By factory method etc.)

60.	What is an anonymous object?

61.	When is using anonymous object a good approach? 
	(ans- if the object is to be used only once,if only one behavior of an object has to be activated)

62.	What is the alternative syntax for main() ?

63.	Which are the popular operating systems? Whom is it licensed to?

	(windows-microsoft, unix-AT & T , Macintosh-Apple)   


	//PUT THESE QUESTIONS TO SET-2

1.  	What is the basic requirement that an operating system expects from any programming language?
	 (main())

2. 	 Where does the execution of a program begin from?
	 (actually from static from static)

3.	  Why should the main() be enclosed with in the class? 
	(it is a rule in java that every method should be present within a class)

4.  	Is there any convention to name a Java file? 
	(it should be the name of the class in which main() is present)


