Set-7
1.	Which object oriented concept is achieved using overloading? 
	(three concepts-encapsulation, polymorphism and inheritance)

2.	What restrictions are placed on method overloading? 
	(order should be different)

3.	Does c++ support operator overloading? 
	(yes)

4.	Can overloaded methods have different return types?
	 (yes)

5.	Can overloaded methods have different access modifiers? 
	(yes)

6.	Can overloaded methods declare checked exceptions?
	 (yes)

7.	Is method overloading compile time polymorphism or run time polymorphism? 
	(compile time polymorphism)

8.	What is a native method? 
	(native methods are such methods which are coded in other languages)

9.	What is the advantage of native methods? 
	(improves overall performance of the code)

10.	What is meant by method overloading with typepromotion? 
	(numeric promotion)

11.	What is the problem of performing method overloading with typepromotion? 
	(ambiguity)

12.	If c++ supports operator overloading then why not java? 
	(it supports operator overloading but programmers don’t have the power)

13.	What are methods in java also called as? 
	(functions, modules, subroutines, procedures, does, behaviors)

14.	What are the 4 different types of behaviors in java? 
	(no input no output, no input with output, input with no output and input with output)

15.	Does the behavior fall under the has or the does category in java? 
	(does)

16.	Give examples of 4 types of behaviors in java. 
	(example done in the class)

17.	What is an activation record? 
	(it is a record present on the stack. The general format of an activation record is: actual parameters, return value. control link, access line(reference variable), 
	saved machine status, local variables, temporaries)

18.	When and where is the activation record created? 
	(on the stack, when the method is called. Activation record contains actual parameters, return value, control link,  access link, saved memory, local variables, temporaries)

19.	When does the activation record get deleted? 
	( when control goes out of the method)

20.	Where are the reference variables and local variables created in java? 
	(in activation record in stack)

21.	What is meant by method overloading? 
	(refers to the process of creating multiple methods all with the same name. Used to achieve virtual polymorphism in java.)

22.	What is overloaded in method overloading?
	(nothing is overloaded. User of the methods virtually feels one method is doing multiple activities , but in reality there would be multiple methods all with the same name doin one one activity each)

23.	Why is method overloading considered as virtual polymorphism? 
	(because nothing is overloaded or virtual thinking)

24.	What is the criteria that must be ensured for method overloading in java? 
	(order should be different)

25.	What is the advantage of method overloading? 
	(ease of usability,user is prevented from memorizing multiple method names)

26.	Does the return type of the method play any role in method overloading? 
	(no)

27.	If we do not specify the return type of a method, then what will be the default return type? 
	(int)

28.	Why are activation records stored on the stack?
	 (because of first in last out)

29.	What is the difference between method overloading and method overriding?
 
30.	Is operator overloading supported in java? 
	(partially)

31.	What is the disadvantage of method overloading? 
	(it increases the burden on compiler)


